
Type to search
PWABuilder Logo
PWA Starter
Quick Start
Prerequisites
Installing the CLI
Start a New App
Deploy Locally
Next Steps
CLI Usage
Routing
Service Workers
Publish Your PWA
Tech Overview
FAQ
New blog post! See how to enable in-app purchases on iOS in your PWA!
Our latest post, You Won’t Believe How We Enabled In-App Purchases for PWAs on iOS, demonstrates what it takes to get iOS in-app purchases working on a Progressive Web App. Go check it out!
PWA Starter Quick Start
You can start with the PWA Starter by using the PWABuilder CLI, which allows you to create a fresh, templated progressive web app (PWA) project in just few seconds.

Prerequisites
The only prerequisite for using the PWA Starter and the PWABuilder CLI is Node.js and npm.

We also recommend using Git and some sort of code editor, such as VSCode, but these are not required.

Installing the CLI
Using npm, you can install the PWA Builder CLI with this command:

npm i -g @pwabuilder/cli
Copy to clipboardErrorCopied
Note The -g flag installs the CLI globally, so that you can use it from anywhere. If you only want the CLI to be accessible from your project directory, run the same command without the -g flag.

Once you have installed the CLI, you can use it to create a new progressive web app.

Note Optionally, you can run the CLI without installing it using npx. Guidance on how to do this is included below.

Start a New App
To start a new app using the CLI:

If you have installed the CLI, run the create command and provide a name for your app:
pwa create <app-name-here>
Copy to clipboardErrorCopied
If you are using NPX, you can run the same command like so:
npx @pwabuilder/cli create <app-name-here>
Copy to clipboardErrorCopied
After you hit enter, the CLI will fetch the template for you and install all npm dependencies.
Once the process completes, you can start developing on your PWA. If you want to learn how to add content to your new app, check out this article

Deploy Locally
Deploying your PWA locally is easy with the PWABuilder CLI.

From the root of your project, just run:

pwa start
Copy to clipboardErrorCopied
Your progressive web app will then open in a new browser window.

Next Steps
Learn how to use the CLI in depth

Learn how to add content to your PWA

Learn more about the service worker in the PWA Starter

Learn how to deploy your PWA to the web

Learn more about the technical structure of the starter

