IQAir LogoIQAir Logo
Air Quality
Air Monitors
Air Purifiers
Filters
Face Masks
For Business
News
Impact
Search
International flag
Sign in
CartClick to open cart
Air Quality
Resources
What is the air quality index (AQI)?
3 Aug 2018
person using AirVisual App with air pollution in background
The Air Quality Index (AQI) is a measurement of air pollutant concentrations in ambient air pollution and their associated health risks.

Air pollutants measured in AQI
There are six air pollutants measured in the index formula, including:

PM2.5
PM10
carbon monoxide
sulfur dioxide
nitrogen dioxide
ground-level ozone
An AQI number is assigned based on the air pollutant with the highest AQI number at the moment the air quality is measured. Only pollutants available from a given air quality monitoring station are measured, and many do not include all six pollutants equally. Because air quality changes throughout the day, a monitored location’s AQI changes with the level of measured air pollutant concentrations.

The index represents air pollutant concentrations with a number falling within a range of air quality categories. Within each category and number range, elevated health risks associated with rising air pollutant concentrations are identified.

The air quality index ranges from 0 to 500, though air quality can be indexed beyond 500 when there are higher levels of hazardous air pollution. Good air quality ranges from 0 to 50, while measurements over 300 are considered hazardous.

IQAir AirVisual platform AQI readings are based on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) to calculate AQI and to attribute code color.4,5 AirVisual Series air quality monitors measure PM2.5, PM1, PM10, and carbon dioxide levels and use PM2.5, or fine particulate matter, to determine the AQI.

The AirVisual Series monitors AQI using PM2.5 measurements as the determinant for AQI readings because PM2.5 is widely available and considered the most hazardous air pollutant impacting human health.6,7,8

PM2.5 is measured by micrograms per cubic meter (μg/m3). According to the U.S. EPA NAAQS, any measurement greater than 9.0 μg/m3 (US AQI 50) can be dangerous to human health.

AQI Chart
Pictured: Air quality index chart with corresponding PM2.5 μg/m3.

AQI categories
Here’s how each of the AQI categories are represented, how they can impact human health, and some recommendations for what to do when the AQI has reached a higher category.

The categories are listed from least harmful to human health (“good”) to the most harmful (“hazardous”).

Good
green-aqi_4

AQI: 0-50
PM2.5 (μg/m3): 0-9.0
Green
When categorised as good, air quality poses little to no health risk at an AQI of 0 up to an AQI of 50. You can enjoy your usual outdoor activities. You may choose to open your windows and ventilate your home to bring in outdoor air.

Moderate
yellow 4

AQI: 51-100
PM2.5 (μg/m3): 9.1-35.4
Yellow
Due to the risk of respiratory illness symptoms, sensitive groups should greatly reduce outdoor exercise when air quality is moderate (US AQI 51-100). Avoid ventilating indoor spaces with outdoor air, and close windows to avoid letting outdoor air pollution indoors.

Note that sensitive groups for all categories include children, the elderly, pregnant people, and people with cardiac and pulmonary diseases.

Unhealthy for sensitive groups
orange 5

AQI: 101-150
PM2.5 (μg/m3): 35.5-55.4
Orange
When air quality is unhealthy for sensitive groups, everyone is at risk for eye, skin, and throat irritation as well as respiratory problems. The public should greatly reduce outdoor exertion.

Sensitive groups are at greater health risk, should avoid all outdoor activity, and should consider wearing an air pollution mask outdoors. Ventilation is discouraged. A high-performance air purifier should be turned on if indoor air quality is unhealthy.

Unhealthy
red 4

AQI: 151-200
PM2.5 (μg/m3): 55.5-125.4
Red
Unhealthy AQI measurements mean that there is an increased likelihood of heart and lung aggravation as well as health impacts among the public, particularly for sensitive groups.

Everyone should avoid and wear a pollution mask outdoors. Ventilation is discouraged. Air purifiers should be turned on.

Very unhealthy
purple 4

AQI: 201-300
PM2.5 (μg/m3): 125.5-225.4
Purple
When air quality is very unhealthy, the public will be noticeably affected. Sensitive groups will experience reduced endurance in activities. These individuals should remain indoors and limit activities.

Everyone should avoid outdoor exercise and wear a pollution mask outdoors. Ventilation is discouraged. Air purifiers should be turned on.

Hazardous
maroon 4

AQI: 301-500 or greater
PM2.5 (μg/m3): 225.5 or greater
Maroon
Everyone is at high risk of experiencing strong irritation and negative health effects that could trigger cardiovascular and respiratory illnesses.

Avoid exercise and remain indoors. Avoid outdoor exercise and wear a pollution mask outdoors. Ventilation is discouraged. Air purifiers should be turned on.

Differences between AQI systems
There are different systems used around the world for measuring air quality. The United States and China AQI systems are the most widely used systems – both measure the same group of air pollutants. However, each system rates AQI scores from 200 and lower differently.2

The U.S. AQI system generally yields higher scores for AQI under 200 because lower levels of concentrations of PM2.5 result in a higher AQI value. The U.S. revised its AQI standard in 2013 when it was found that lower levels of PM2.5 were associated with greater serious health consequences than was previously understood.3 Consequently, the U.S. AQI system is considered the more stringent standard and is the world standard.

China and U.S. air quality index and PM2.5 concentration comparison chart
U.S./China AQI Level	U.S. PM2.5 concentrations (µg/m3)	China PM2.5 concentrations (µg/m3)
0-50	0-9.0	0-35
51-100	9.1-35.4	35.1-75
101-150	35.5-55.4	75.1-115
151-200	56.5-125.4	115.1-150
201-300	125.5-225.4	150.1-250
301-500	225.5+	250.1-500
Pictured: Comparison chart of China and U.S. air quality index differences.

The takeaway
The air quality index reinterprets potentially complex air quality data into a meaningful number with corresponding categories of pollutant concentrations and associated health effects.

Please note, though, that there is no safe level of air pollution, in particular as the AQI reaches closer to 50 and beyond. By knowing whether the air we breathe is safe and how it can impact our health, it’s possible to take action to help control the harmful health effects of air pollution.

About IQAir
ABOUT IQAIR
IQAir is a Swiss technology company that empowers individuals, organizations and governments to improve air quality through information and collaboration.
Article Resources








Share on WhatsApp
Share on LinkedIn
Share on X
Share on Facebook
Trending topics
Air Cleaning Technology
Air Quality
Allergies and Asthma
Awards and Reviews
Climate
Community
Featured Contributor
Health and Wellness
Parents
Pets

Display more tags
+4
Related news
Man in city coughing with face mask
5 min read
What pollutants should I watch out for?
Hazy skies over city landscape
6 min read
PM2.5
Dusk
4 min read
Ozone
Newsletter
Receive the latest releases and tips, exclusive articles, in your inbox every week.

Enter your email
Read about our privacy policy

Subscribe
Featured product
IQAir AirVisual Pro | Indoor Air Quality Monitor
4.9 out of 5 stars, average rating value. Read 120 Reviews. Same page link.
4.9
 
(120)
Write a review
Designed to measure & monitor indoor air quality 
The AirVisual Pro Monitor reports air quality inside your home, school, or business. Measures air pollution from cooking, cleaning, wood burning, interior decoration, smoking, and wildfire smoke and traffic pollution entering the building. View real-time and historic air quality via the free mobile IQAir AirVisual app.


More details
Featured product
HealthPro 250 | Room Air Purifier
4.9 out of 5 stars, average rating value. Read 925 Reviews. Same page link.
4.9
 
(925)
Write a review
Advanced air purification to remove pollution, dust, and odours effectively
Experience the HealthPro 250, the ultimate air purifier designed to provide exceptional particle and gas-phase filtration. Engineered to tackle allergens, dust, airborne viruses, bacteria, gases, and odours, ensuring thorough and comprehensive air purification. Perfectly suited for everyone including sensitive individuals, allergy sufferers, and pet owners, this advanced purifier is the ideal solution for healthy indoor air quality.

IQAir HealthPro 250 air purifier for smoke, allergens, and ultrafine particles
More details
More from the news
Wildfire at night in hills
8 min read
Air Quality
Climate

Display more tags
+2
How to protect yourself from wildfire smoke
Close-up of what appears to be a room air purifier with some plants in the background (another indoor air purifying tool that has been shown to be ineffective in improving indoor air quality).
12 min read
Air Cleaning Technology
Health and Wellness

Display more tags
+1
Do air purifiers work? Air purifier myths and facts debunked
Why are Himalayan salt lamps bad for air quality?
8 min read
Air Quality
Health and Wellness

Display more tags
+1
Himalayan salt lamps: Worth their salt?
Two lit candles
5 min read
Health and Wellness
Popular articles
The hidden dangers of scented candles
Connect With IQAir
Sign up below to join the clean air community and receive the latest air quality news and science to help improve the air around you.

Email address
Email
IQAir arrow pointing to the right
About IQAir
About Us
Contact Us
Awards and Partnerships
Careers
Join the Community
Become a Dealer
Air Quality
Air Quality Map
World Air Quality
Historical Air Quality Data
Live AQI⁺ City Ranking
World Air Quality Report
Air Quality API
Air Quality App
Products
Air Quality Monitors
Air Purifiers
Replacement Filters
HVAC Air Filtration
Face Masks
IQAir Dashboard
Business Solutions
Commercial Air Purification
Schools
Hospitality
Museums
Hospitals
Dental Offices
Laboratories
News
Air Quality News
Health and Wellness
Allergies and Asthma
Pets
Parents
Success Stories
Wildfire
Support
Product Support
Warranty Overview
Warranty Registration
Knowledge Base
IWBI Logo
Facebook
X
YouTube
Instagram
IQAir Logo
International flag
International
Settings Icon
AQI⁺ US, metric
Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
View Privacy Policy
Privacy Policy
© 2025 IQAir. All rights reserved